HW5
================
Diwei Zhu
5/31/2022

### What is complex contagion and how it’s different from simple contagion (you may want to refer to readings – Centola)?

The difference between complex and simple contagions is in the condition
under which a behavior can spread. In the simple contagions, the
positive/negative behaviors can freely spread throughout the network if
everyone is connected by at least one edge. In the complex contagions, a
certain threshold must be passed. For example, if the behavior in
question is reading research papers for fun, then there could be a
threshold of 50%, which means that half of the people that the person is
connected to have to be reading research papers for fun. If the
threshold is not achieved, then the idea cannot spread and stays within
its boundaries.

To explain the practical application of these two types of contagions,
we can imagine that simple contagion is an idea that doesn’t take much
to accept (for example, checking both sides of the street before
crossing the road on the crosswalk) while a complex contagion is a
behavior that needs to be adopted (for example, a person might consider
practicing yoga in the morning only if majority of their friends already
practice yoga.)

### What does complex contagion mean for diffusion of behaviors in organization?

Complex contagions are by far more interesting and difficult to
manipulate than simple contagions in the sense that certain behaviors
could be either promoted or stifled by modifying the connections between
nodes in the same group, also called bonding social capital, as well as
connections between nodes in different groups, also known as bridging
social capital. Some negative behaviors within the organization can be
diffused by encouraging a higher degree of communication within all the
nodes. On the other hand, positive behavior can be accelerated and
spread throughout the workplace by optimizing the number of connections
between all the nodes, which would result in a near-perfect state called
the small world network.

### How can we use the threshold models to better manage

###• Prosocial behavior in organizations ###• Learning ###• Toxic or
unproductive behaviors

There can be different threshold models for different use cases. For
instance, prosocial behavior can be promoted by ensuring that the
behavior is first spread throughout the smaller group before connecting
it to a larger network to make sure that the adoption happened before it
gets hindered by groupthink. This can also be useful for learning
behaviors, where we can look for connecting highly skilled employees
with the influential nodes that, in turn, can pass down the skills
within their respective circles.

If we are dealing with the case of negative behavior that started to
spread, then one of the options would be to eliminate the links between
the negative elements and the rest of the group. However, this option
might be incorrect as most of us are just products of our environment.
Instead, the organization can proactively focus on making sure that all
nodes within the organization/groups are highly interconnected. This
would prevent a node with negative behavior to pass this behavior onto
the rest of the organization, effectively eliminating the threat.
